From an evolutionary perspective as a feature or a bug, our, uh,
natural sort of tendency to form tribes.
So what's a bug.
Oh, sorry. This is a computer, uh, programming analogy. Um,
meaning like
it would be more beneficial.
Is it beneficial or detrimental to form tribes from an
evolutionary perspective?
Yeah. Yeah. But, but.
But what does it, what does it mean? What does a bug mean?
Yes. Right. I mean.
Well, yeah, like where's evolution going anyway. It's.
Beneficial from, you know,
it's beneficial in the sense that it evolved by natural selection. Yes. Uh,
to be, to benefit the individuals who did it. Yes. But if you,
if by bug you mean something that from the point of view of the species,
it would be great if you could just wipe this out. Right.
Because the species would somehow do better. Yes. As a result then yes. But,
but then, you know, males are a bug <laugh>.
Uh, come on now. It's, uh,
there's some nice things to males speaking as a male.
The fact that there are some nice things to males doesn't mean that they're not
bugs, you know, maybe they're quite nice bugs,
but it'll be much better for the species as a whole,
not to have to have males who impose this violence on the species as a whole.
Yeah.
As somebody who practiced controlled violence and doing a lot of martial arts.
Yeah. It, uh, I'm not sure. It,
it does seem kind of fun to have this kind of controlled violence,
also sports also. I mean, the question of conflict in general,
I guess that's the deeper question.
Don't you think there's some value to conflict <affirmative> for the
improvement of society for progress that,
that this tension between tribes isn't this like,
uh, experiment, a continued experiment,
we conduct with each other and to figure out what is a better world to build.
Like,
you need that conflict of good ideas and bad ideas is to
go to war with each other.
It's like the United States with the 50 states and the it's the laboratory of
ideas. Don't you think that is again, feature versus bug?
Um, it, this kind of conflict,
when it doesn't get out of hand is actually ultimately progress productive
for better world.
Well, what do you mean by conflict? I mean,
you can have conflict in the sense of people have different ideas about the
solution to a problem. And so their ideas are in conflict.
They can sit down at it and, uh, on a log and,
and chat about it and then decide, okay, you're right. Or I'm wrong or whatever.
Um, but, but if my conflict, uh,
you mean a great idea to build a nuclear bomb and set that off,
uh, then no, you know, I,
I don't see why it's a good idea to have all this violence.
Yeah. There's I, I wonder,
I mean, it's not a good idea,
but I wonder if human history would evolve the way it did without the violence.
Oh, I'm sure you're you're right. It pro would be, uh,
humans would not evolved in, in the sense that we have, but I would hope that,
uh, the course of, uh,
violence in evolution, uh, will continue in the way it has.
So, you know, there's all sorts of indications, um,
that the importance of violence has been reduced over
time. And, you know,
this has made famous Stephen Pinker's book,
but others have written about it too. Um, that the,
the frequency of, uh, death from violence in every country,
you look at, uh, it has been declining. That's just great. And so,
you know,
the amazing thing about this is that even when you take the death due to the
first world war and the second world war,
the 20th century appears to have been statistically meaning
rates of death per individual, um, the, uh,
least violent in history.
So we, haven't got very far down the course to nonviolence,
but I don't see why we shouldn't just carry on doing it.
I think it's ridiculous, frankly, you know, uh, uh, excuse my frankness, uh,
to, to say that, uh, the violence is a good thing. Mm-hmm, <affirmative>, um,
I think that it would be a wonderful concept if we could evolve somehow world,
you know, 3000 years from now, uh,
where violence is really regarded as, uh,
simply appalling and that, you know,
they look back on our time and can't believe what we were doing.
Yeah. Yeah. But of course, violence takes a lot of different shapes as we get.
Um,
As we start to think deeper and deeper about living beings on earth,
for example, the violence we commit and the torture would commit to animals.
And then perhaps down the line,
as we talked offline about is with robots and that kind of thing.
So there there's just so many ways to commit violence to others.
And some people now talk about violence in the space of, of ideas,
which of course,
to me at least is a bit of a silly notion relative to use that same V
word for the space of ideas versus actual physical violence.
But it may be that long time from now,
we see that even violence in the space of ideas is, is, is quite,
uh, manifestation of that kind of violence. And so it,
it is interesting where this is headed and I think you're absolutely right.
Uh, a world, a non-violent world does seem like a better world.
I wonder if the constraints on resources somehow make that world
more and more difficult, especially as we run out of.
Resources. Well, it's gotta be very,
very different from what we're doing nowadays. And, and it's,
it's unimaginably different. If we could imagine it,
then maybe we could work towards it at the moment.
Nobody knows how to work towards it.
Well, that's kind of the stories of humans as we,
we don't really know the future.
We're trying to trying ad ho kind of develop it as we go and
sometimes get into trouble yeah. As the.
Violence. But it, you know, George Orwell's vision in 1984 was of, uh,
of, of, you know, two or three world powers each so powerful that nobody could,
could diminish the, could, could destroy the other. Um,
but the notion of, uh, an evolutionarily stable relationship among,
uh, heavily armed world powers just does not seem, uh,
as though it it's reasonable at all. There's to say,
uh, you know, we've,
we've now got out 170 or 190 nations in the world,
uh, dominated by a few big ones, uh,
all with arms pointing at each other.
And the notion that we could just carry on having peace talks and making
sure that, uh, these arms, uh, don't get, uh, involved in,
in some kind of massive congregation, uh, seems incredibly optimistic.
Some kind of major change has to happen, uh, whereby you know,
and some people would like to see all the weapons go, that'd be great. You know,
I, I'm a member of that, that sort of group that tries to, to see that happen.
It's gonna very difficult to see it happen. And, um, another kind of concept is,
uh, the nations themselves will dissolve and will become, uh, one,
one government.
That itself is a terrifying vision because the capacity for abuse
by a single world power would be so problematic. And in addition,
how do you get there without a war in the first place? Mm-hmm <affirmative> so,
you know, at the moment we, we have no reasonable kind of, uh, future in mind,
but I'm sure it's there somewhere. It's just that we haven't yet to find it.
And a lot of people like in the cryptocurrency space argue that, uh,
you can create decentralized societies if you take away the power from states
to find the monetary system. So they argue, like if you give, if,
if you make the monetary systems such that it's disjointed from anyone,
the control of one individual, any one government,
then that might be a way to form sort of ad ho decentralized society, just,
they just pop up all over the place. That's a really interesting technological,
uh, solution to how to remove the overreach of power from governments.
Yes. Right. Absolutely. And, and it may well be that, uh,
that the future will emerge outta some sort of quite surprising mm-hmm
<affirmative> direction, uh, like that.